---
title: 'Smyth (***)'
date: 2024-05-29
permalink: /posts/2024-05-29-smyth
image_sliders:
  - smyth_slider
---

<!--more-->

|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Rating** | 8.08 (taste: 7.7 · presentation: 7.7 · experience: 9.6)                 |
| **Cost**   | $325pp                                                                  |
| **Location** | Chicago, IL, USA                                                      |
| **Head Chef** | John Shields, Karen Urie Shields                                     |
| **TL;DR**  |  a creative celebration of both forest and sea in a relaxing, attentive environment|


{% include slider.html selector="smyth_slider" %}

Nestled in the West Loop, stepping into Smyth, you are invited into an assuming layout with an open kitchen that lacks the stuffiness of many other Michelin starred restaurants. The wait staff are friendly and the ambience invites an air of warmth. At the time of dining, Smyth had just recently been awarded its third star.

To start off, as a precursor to the rest of the courses each with a somewhat Japanese flair, we were presented with the slightly alcoholic, fermented amazake with fruity pineapple notes and a large sprig of leaf. It was fresh, fruity, and provided good sweetness to begin with. The tart had a very strong herb flavor with the fennel and dill but it went well with the kelp and the mushier prawn. The quail egg provided a strong burst of flavor as the yolk exploded. 

The following two dishes held with more seafood - the Dungeness crab bite was akin to eating fruit with a briny crab aftertaste. The crab custard, almost a chawanmushi, was one of the best courses, fusing a rich crab flavor with passionfruit for intense umami and sweetness in every bite. The following onion dish was largely forgettable, as they were roasted well and tart, but the lobster consomme did not provide too much support for flavor.

The caviar dash had a very odd presentation - it was caviar stuck to the side and slowly sliding down into the walnut sauce. In my opinion, this seemed a bit messy and unrefined; we were given almonds and rose butter to alternate enjoying the caviar with, and while they both were pleasant, the rose butter had a much stronger, richer flavor, providing decent contrast.

The palate cleanser was effective and fresh. It combined the apple, eucalyptus, and avocado to provide an earthy dish with a peanut milk bed, a bit like a vegetable ice cream. The following vegetable dish fell a bit flat. The cream sauce and pureé were just fine, if not a bit tart and the asparagus tips were done well but lacked much beyond their initial flavor. I was a big fan of the rainbow trout as its consistency was almost gelatinous, contrasted to its flaky skin and kombu. Laying atop the congee allowed the rice to soak up much of the sauce and flavor. 

Their next dish was the “Lamb in Many Ways,” where the rack was notably delicious while the sausage was unremarkable but savory. The milk bread was fresh, fluffy, and warm and accompanied the lamb heart and habañero sauce well, which formed a very unique yet effective combo. I was satisfied with Smyth’s willingness to try different combinations and provide contrasting flavors, textures, and ideas to the palate.

Onto dessert, the goat cheese texture was just like perfectly chilled ice cream and the tartness provided by the pineapple with the sweetness of the honey fit well. I also enjoyed the ingenuity behind the banana dish, essentially reconstructing the fruit in novel ways. The custard was strong and we were instructed to bite once into the walnut truffle, finish the “banana,” and finally revisit the truffle, keeping up its sweetness. The sweet, chewy kombu was an interesting touch. 

The ganache “quail eggs” were good, but I was not a fan of the strong lemon rind flavor. The graham cracker shot had quite a neutral ganache but the flower flavor was a bit stronger than I would’ve liked. The sea lettuce caramel was strong and evoked flavors similar to that of Japanese snacks.

I want to additionally point out the excellent service as handedness, towels, and dish explanations were handled with care and it was evident how attentive our waiters and waitresses were. 

